# Xilinx_Spartan_3_series_Traffic_lights
Design of traffic lights on a Xilinx Spartan-3 series FPGA chip.

The traffic light system is described with a code that simulates the operation of traffic lights for cars and pedestrians in two modes: day and night. In day mode, the lights change automatically at a specified time, and in night mode, a pedestrian must press a button to change the lights. At the output of the system, we receive signals responsible for traffic lights, for cars: green, yellow and red light, and for pedestrians: green and red light. In the designed system, the sequence of changing the lights operates on the basis of a counter that increases its value by 1 with each rising edge of the clock signal "Clk" up to the value 79 when the counter is reset and the count is started from the beginning. The period of the clock signal in the simulation is 1 second. During the day, the following sequence of light changes occurs: for 40 [s] the green light for "car_green" and red for pedestrians "ped_red" is turned on, then the green light for "car_green" cars is turned off and the light is turned on for another 2 [s] yellow for cars "car_yellow". At the same time, excluding the yellow light for "car_yellow" cars, the green "ped_green" pedestrian light is turned on and the red light for "car_red" cars and the red "ped_red" pedestrian light is turned off. The traffic lights set in this way remain on for another 31 [s] and then the green light for pedestrians flashes twice and then the lights change: for pedestrians from green to red, and for cars, the yellow light turns on for 2 [s]. After this time 79 [s] passes, so the "counter" counter is reset and the whole sequence of changing the lights starts from the beginning.
The night mode is activated by, for example, a light sensor connected to the system, which sets the "dayNight" input high at night and low during the day. When night mode is turned on, the "counter" is reset and turned off by setting the "reset" signal high, and only green for cars and red for pedestrians remain on. If, in this mode, a pedestrian presses the "ped_button" button, the sequence of changing the lights from the day (high state of the "active" signal) is activated, where the "counter" (low state of the "reset" signal) is initially turned on. The daily sequence lasts 79 [s], when the "counter" reaches this value, this sequence of light switching is turned off (low state of the "active" signal). Then there is a return to the previous night sequence, ie the "counter" counter is reset and turned off, and only the green light for cars and the red light for pedestrians remain on until the pedestrian presses the "ped_button" button again or until the dish starts.
